Hey Kim, I didn't realize you joined.
You were behind my agenda.
Okay. Uh so we'll call this meeting to
order. It is 7:01. This is the uh June
11, 2025 uh Board of Finance special
meeting. Um we'll recite the pledge of
allegiance. I pledge allegiance to the
flag of the United States of America and
to the republic for which it stands. One
nation under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all. For all.
Thank you.
Um I don't see any members of the
public.
So we will move on to agenda item three.
So this is to discuss and set the mill
rate for the 2025 2026 fiscal year.
Um, so Eric, if I'm going to open with a
question to you from what you had said
previously, it looked like the state
budget essentially went through as we
had expected. So there should not be any
uh significant uh changes that would
impact this. Correct. Correct.
Okay. Can you set up so I can share the
screen?
Oh, sure. Uh,
yep. You should be able to share it now.
I'm just going to pull up the uh
the budget that we used at the town
meeting where the budget went to
referendum and subsequently passed two
weeks later. Uh, or I'm sorry, when the
town went to town meeting, we presented
this. This is what went to the
referendum two weeks later um and passed
at that meeting. So
uh this is just a summary which also
shows the mill rate calculation.
Total expenditures 12899
revenue is estimated looks like that's
going to hold. That's good. Use of fund
balance estimated abatements and
exemptions are 45,000 to be raised by
taxes was 10,3,445.
Um given the uh revised grand list I
calculated one mill to be about 316,640.
So the estimated mill rate at that point
was uh 3.159.
That is what we presented to the town at
the meeting. Um but what they're really
voting on is the expenditures for the
school and for the town. Um and that was
passed subsequently. Okay, that was with
the Andover elementary school increase
of 5% which is what we had proposed and
what went to referendum.
So, uh the what we have to do today is
to officially set the mill rate which is
uh calculated to be 31.59.
Uh once we set the mill rate um we send
a letter over to the uh assessor and the
tax collector don clerk can't remember
but I have it in my file and uh give
them the official notice so that they
can uh uh set up the uh tax bills
properly. Okay.
Um Eric, did I cover anything? Anything
to add?
No, I mean ideally we'd get it to the
tax collector
uh and the assistant assessor tomorrow
so we can go to QDS tomorrow. Yeah, they
don't uh they don't need a hard copy, do
they? A signed hard copy. Uh I think if
you PDF you send them a PDF with your
signature on it, that would work. Yeah,
I can I can drop one off, too. It's it's
uh it's I I'll try to do both. So, yep.
Okay.
All right. So, any questions or
comments, discussion from the board?
Mark, I just wanted to ask this is we
have this spreadsheet, correct? This is
the one that was sent to us. The final I
haven't looked at this in a long time. I
remember the mill rate as exactly what I
see there. So, look it up. Yeah, I I had
a little I remember these three figures,
you know. Um, so this this is the one we
have that you did send to us as the
updated one that we used. Okay. In case
I ever want to look back and see what we
did. Um, the presation on the 12th. We
had some revisions. I sent it on the
13th.
Um,
my only thought this is fine with me.
Thank you for answering my question. We
ended up adding, it looks like we got
more money from the state for the T, the
town aid roads fund the other night.
Quite I think in my head when they
talked about it, it's almost 80,000
more. So I'm kind of really wishing we
never added the 25 back in, but that's
just me pulling hair. So I mean, our
roads look a lot better than some of the
area towns now that I've been driving
through them quite a bit. So they have
been doing a good job. That's That's my
only comment. Okay. You know, I'm
looking I'm looking at my sent email,
Joanne, to answer your question, and I'm
not positive that you guys had this. I
couldn't find it. So, I'll I'll resend
it when the meeting's done. So, thank
you, Mark. Thank you. That's what I was
going to ask for because from what I can
tell, the last thing I had was your
presentation document from the
presentation. Right. Right. Yeah. So, I
think what we had is we had the document
from the seventh and we all we did was
change the school. Yeah. amount. But
I'll send this one out so you have it
just so we all have it. Thank you. Yep.
Any further questions or discussion?
Does anybody want to make a motion to
set the mill rate to 31.59?
I'll make the motion. Okay. Make the
motion. Okay. Who was second? Is that
Joanne? No. Kim. Kim. Okay.
All right. Any further discussion?
Okay, hearing none, we'll take a vote.
All those in favor say I. I. I. Any
opposed?
And do we have any abstensions?
Okay, hearing none. Motion passes.
Thank you. Um, so that is all we have on
our agenda tonight. So we uh can
entertain a motion to adjurnn. Motion.
I'll make a motion to adjurnn. I'll
second. Kimberly and Louise seconds.
Yeah. Any discussion?
Anybody want to talk about your vacation
plans or anything? Can't wait. That's
all I know. Yeah. Right. Whenever it is.
I don't know yet. All right. Um, all
those in favor of a German say. Hi.
Thank you everybody. Uh, have a good
start to your summer. Um, I'll be out of